
MongoDB Indexes
	- Indexes faster the query performance
	- Indexes are special data structures that store a portion of the dataset
		- a field or set of fields
	- Index Names
		The default name for an index is the concatenation of the indexed keys and each key’s direction in the index ( i.e. 1 or -1) using underscores as a separator. 
		For example, an index created on { item : 1, quantity: -1 } has the name item_1_quantity_-1.
	- Index Types
		MongoDB provides a number of different index types to support specific types of data and queries.
		- Single Field: 
			In addition to the MongoDB-defined _id index, MongoDB supports the creation of user-defined ascending/descending indexes on a single field of a document.
		- Compound Index
			MongoDB also supports user-defined indexes on multiple fields, i.e. compound indexes.
			The order of fields listed in a compound index has significance. 
			For instance, if a compound index consists of { userid: 1, score: -1 }, the index sorts first by userid and then, within each userid value, sorts by score.
		- Multikey Index
			MongoDB uses multikey indexes to index the content stored in arrays. 
			If you index a field that holds an array value, MongoDB creates separate index entries for every element of the array. 
			These multikey indexes allow queries to select documents that contain arrays by matching on element or elements of the arrays. 
			MongoDB automatically determines whether to create a multikey index if the indexed field contains an array value; you do not need to explicitly specify the multikey type.
		- Geospatial Index
			To support efficient queries of geospatial coordinate data, MongoDB provides two special indexes: 2d indexes that uses planar geometry when returning results and 2dsphere indexes that use spherical geometry to return results.
		- Text Indexes
			MongoDB provides a text index type that supports searching for string content in a collection. These text indexes do not store language-specific stop words (e.g. “the”, “a”, “or”) and stem the words in a collection to only store root words.
		- Hashed Indexes
			To support hash based sharding, MongoDB provides a hashed index type, which indexes the hash of the value of a field. These indexes have a more random distribution of values along their range, but only support equality matches and cannot support range-based queries.
	- Covered Queries
		When the query criteria and the projection of a query include only the indexed fields, MongoDB returns results directly from the index without scanning any documents or bringing documents into memory. These covered queries can be very efficient.
	
	
Database commands
	The db.runCommand() method is used to provide a helper to run specified database commands.
	- Run a command against database
		db.runCommand({ command })
	- Run an admin command
		db.adminCommand({ command })
Capped collections
	We can create collections in mongoDb on which we can apply size limit. 
	These special type of collections are called Capped Collections. 
	These are a kind of circular queues, in which if allocated size limit is reached, it makes space for new documents by overwriting the oldest documents in the collection
	Syntax:
		db.createCollection(nameOfCollection, {capped: Boolean, autoIndexId: Boolean, size: Number, max : Number})
		Parameters:
		nameOfCollection: the capped collection name
		“capped” option : set to true in case to create a capped collection
		“size” option: specify the size limit for the collection in bytes(mandatory in case of capped collection)
		“max” option: specify the limit on maximum number of documents allowed in the collection(size option is given preference over max option)
		“autoIndexId” option: set to false in case of capped collections to disable the automatic index creation
		
	
GridFS
	- Used to store files larger than 16 mb
	- Stores the large files in to chunks of size 255kb
	- It uses two collections for it
		- files: metadata of the file
		- chunks: parts (chunks) of file
	- Both collections are from a default bucket called fs
		fs.files
		fs.chunks
	- To upload files we can use 
		 A mongodb driver with any language
		 'mongofiles' CLI tool located in the bin folder
		 
	- Usage of mongofiles
		eg: mongofiles -d records list 
			return a list of all files in a GridFS collection in the records database
		eg: mongofiles --host abc.net --port 37017 -d=records list
			List all files in records db located in abc.net server
		eg: mongofiles -d=records put abc.txt
			Upload large file named abc.lf to database records 
		eg: mongofiles -d=records delete abc.lf
			Delete a file abc.lf from database records
		eg: mongofiles -d=records search corinth
			To search for files in the GridFS collection in the records database that have the string corinth in their names
		eg: mongofiles -d records list ab
			list all files in the GridFS collection in the records database that begin with the string 'ab'
		eg: mongofiles -d=records get abc.lf
			fetch the file from the GridFS collection in the records database named abc.lf
		eg: mongofiles -d=records get_id 'ObjectId("56feac751f417d0357e7140f")'
			fetch the file from the GridFS collection in the records database with _id: ObjectId("56feac751f417d0357e7140f")
			
		